docs/processing/2_rehousing.md, before:

---
id: 2_rehousing
title: Rehousing
---

## Box Sizes
The size of the folders used determines the size of the box. The folder should fit snugly inside the box without the sides of the box crushing or bending the folder. If your folder is sliding around inside the box, it is too small for that size box. 
 
**RC** = records carton. These are the large square boxes that have completely detachable lids. We typically use these boxes for offsite storage of office files.
 
**AB** = archival box. A document or legal-size box. These are the shiny or buff neutrally colored boxes with hinged lids usually associated with storing archival materials. You may also hear them referred to as “Hollinger boxes.”
 
**SF** = small flat. The smallest of our oversize boxes, these are often used for material that does not fit into an AB or RC, or that is best stored lying down rather than upright.

**OS** = oversize. Depending on the number of x’s following the abbreviation OS you may be working with incrementally larger sized flat boxes. These boxes all have detachable lids.

**MC** = map case. You may also hear these referred to as flat files. They are the metal drawers for especially large, flat two-dimensional items. They are designed to hold oversize drawings and documents that are 30 x 40 inches. All materials stored in the map cases should be in an appropriately sized archival folder, never loose.

Tube (no abbreviation). As a last resort for items that are too big for the flat files, we will roll them up and store them in tubes. These are primarily used for posters.

This is a link to [another document.](doc3.md)  
This is a link to an [external page.](http://www.example.com)

## Mixed boxes
Mixed boxes are used to hold material that takes up much less than a whole box. Mixed boxes are particularly helpful for housing oversized items if there are only a few of them in the collection. For instructions on adding material to a mixed box see “Workflow for: Archivists Toolkit Processes.”

## Folders
Use legal-size folders with legal-size boxes and letter-size folders with letter-size boxes; do not put letter-size folders in legal-size boxes. The folders will shift or slide during movement if there is significant space within the box, contributing to wear on the contents.

Archival materials should not slump over in their folders. If they do, it means that there is too much empty space in the box. If there is a lot of room (several inches), empty slide boxes or foam may be inserted into the box. If there is less than several inches, a spacer can be constructed out of heavy weight acid-free paper or cardboard. If there is very little room and materials are still slumping over, creating dividers and placing them throughout the box is helpful for creating support, especially when the box contains materials of varying sizes and dimensions.

Please note that we do not always transfer records into archival folders. This decision is made on a case-by-case basis depending on the age and condition of the records, among other factors. Do not transfer records into archival folders unless instructed to do so.

## Box openings and folder orientations

Commit message:

add assets folder and update docs

docs/processing/2_rehousing.md, after:

---
id: 2_rehousing
title: Rehousing
---

## Box Sizes
The size of the folders used determines the size of the box. The folder should fit snugly inside the box without the sides of the box crushing or bending the folder. If your folder is sliding around inside the box, it is too small for that size box. 
 
**RC** = records carton. These are the large square boxes that have completely detachable lids. We typically use these boxes for offsite storage of office files.
 
**AB** = archival box. A document or legal-size box. These are the shiny or buff neutrally colored boxes with hinged lids usually associated with storing archival materials. You may also hear them referred to as “Hollinger boxes.”
 
**SF** = small flat. The smallest of our oversize boxes, these are often used for material that does not fit into an AB or RC, or that is best stored lying down rather than upright.

**OS** = oversize. Depending on the number of x’s following the abbreviation OS you may be working with incrementally larger sized flat boxes. These boxes all have detachable lids.

**MC** = map case. You may also hear these referred to as flat files. They are the metal drawers for especially large, flat two-dimensional items. They are designed to hold oversize drawings and documents that are 30 x 40 inches. All materials stored in the map cases should be in an appropriately sized archival folder, never loose.

Tube (no abbreviation). As a last resort for items that are too big for the flat files, we will roll them up and store them in tubes. These are primarily used for posters.

This is a link to [another document.](doc3.md)  
This is a link to an [external page.](http://www.example.com)

## Mixed boxes
Mixed boxes are used to hold material that takes up much less than a whole box. Mixed boxes are particularly helpful for housing oversized items if there are only a few of them in the collection. For instructions on adding material to a mixed box see [Archivists' Toolkit Processes.](topics/1_AT_processes.md)

## Folders
Use legal-size folders with legal-size boxes and letter-size folders with letter-size boxes; do not put letter-size folders in legal-size boxes. The folders will shift or slide during movement if there is significant space within the box, contributing to wear on the contents.

Archival materials should not slump over in their folders. If they do, it means that there is too much empty space in the box. If there is a lot of room (several inches), empty slide boxes or foam may be inserted into the box. If there is less than several inches, a spacer can be constructed out of heavy weight acid-free paper or cardboard. If there is very little room and materials are still slumping over, creating dividers and placing them throughout the box is helpful for creating support, especially when the box contains materials of varying sizes and dimensions.

Please note that we do not always transfer records into archival folders. This decision is made on a case-by-case basis depending on the age and condition of the records, among other factors. Do not transfer records into archival folders unless instructed to do so.

## Box openings and folder orientations

### Flat boxes with flaps that open on the side (the long side):
![flat box with side flap](assets/flat_boxes_side_flap.png)
**Box flap opens to the left.**
Folded side of folder is oriented left, **closest to the flap opening.**

### Flat boxes that open on the front (the short side):
![flat box with front flap](assets/flat_boxes_open_front.png)
**Folded side of folder is oriented left.**

## Items inside folders
Photos and images should all be oriented so that the image *is not upside down when the folder is opened.* Images oriented on their sides within the folder, should always *face the same direction, with the top of the image at the left (and if there is text on the page, the top of the page faces left).*

Holding folder upright, papers/photos/all materials lying sideways in the folder should have their top toward the left of the folder; materials not lying on their side should have their top toward the top of the folder.

![folder contents](assets/folder_contents.png)

In general, put smaller materials up front in folders. Very small materials should be enclosed in a mini-folder made from interleaving paper.

## Map Case Folder Orientation
For oversize materials that live in the map case (aka flat files), in terms of orientation, each folder should be placed with in flap towards the rear of the drawer.
